>> Maximiliano Firtman: Another problem,
and we are still talking about problems,
not solutions, another problem is how we
typically underestimate the mobile space.
And that's not new, we have been
underestimating the mobile space for
a while, I know that because I've been
focusing on the mobile web since 2003,
2004, so before the iPhone.
At first, I'm not sure if you remember
this, but at first, we were creating
mobile sites like m.cnn.com, so
we were making a separate website.
Then at one point, the iPhone appeared and
we say, we don't need to do anything.
So then we were just doing
desktop websites and then,
we'll let the user zoom in and
out over the website and
then we realize now that's not
good that's not a good experience.
So then we move into responsive design,
but we didn't think about performance.
And I'm not sure if you know this,
but if you have three media queries,
three different CSS files for, let's say,
simplifying, dekstop, tablets and phones.
You have three CSS files.
Every device will load the three CSS
files, even if the media query is false.
So every device by default
is loading all the files.
And we were thinking about that, so
then users on slow 3G networks at
the time, we're downloading CSS file for
desktop and CSS file for
tablets that was completely useless.
So, and now we are underestimating
mobile in many different way.
We can say today safely that
the mobile space is iOS and Android.
We might have some small sparks of some
other things for some special markets,
but most of the time, it's iOS and
Android, which is okay.
But what about browsers?
Are we talking about Safari and Chrome?
Is that in house, so
if I try on my on my Mac on Safari and
Chrome on a small window
with an simulator.
Is that good enough to say that it
works properly on mobile devices?
So, what are the browsers that
are actually having some market share?
So, let's go and
see some information really in action.
So, there are a couple of websites
that you can use to get information
about the current scope of the browser
market share, but one is gs.statcounter.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's global
stats from a start counter, where actually
you can see, this is the browser
market share worldwide on April 2023.
63 is Chrome, then we have Safari, Edge,
Firefox, Samsung Internet browser.
Have you ever tried your website on
a Samsung Internet browser just see how it
looks like, how it works,
what's the performance?
And that's desktop plus mobile.
But I can go and edit this chart and
select only mobile.
Even I can unclick tablets as well, so
focusing only on the problem
of mobile devices, okay?
I can also select by region, so you can
see how this is different on different
regions of the world,
even countries, view chart.
And now we will see that
we have users on Opera.
We have users on UC Browser.
Have you ever tried UC Browser?
And by the way, UC Browser is
taking a lot of users worldwide
because of some regions such as Asia,
here is 3%.
Also in the U.S., so
UC Browser is a Chinese browser that
is also available in other countries.
India, have you tried?
Probably not.
Yeah, of course that Chrome and
Safari are important,
but you still have 4% of user 3, 2,
1 on other browsers, that we don't care.
But you say, well, but that's like ie.
Well, if you're paying for
ads, you will have then 20%
of those users accessing your
website on those browsers,
so it's not 002% of your users.
Is it still 20%, 15% of your mobile users?
So, we should get the right information,
also there are other
sources of information.
Cloudflare has just released
also a Cloudflare Radar.
I don't remember the URL, but
we can Google that, Cloudflare Radar.
Radar.cloudflare.com, where you
can see current traffic trends.
You can search for,
I think that in adoption and usage,
we have top browsers and user agents.
So yeah, you can see it's Chrome,
Safari, and Edge, but
you can filter these also by region.
You can say, let's say, India.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: You can
see that now it's 90% Chrome,
3% Safari, 1% Firefox, and
you can change that, of course,
this is the traffic from Cloudflare.
Every information here is like
a subset of the whole Internet,
but it will give us an idea, okay?
There is another thing that is
important that sometimes, these charts,
these stats, are not actually showing us.
These little guys here,
Facebook, Instagram,
can also be TikTok, but
it depends on the OS.
What is the problem with Facebook or
Instagram?
I'm not sure if you are users
of those meta apps.
What happens when you click
on a link on those apps?
>> Speaker 2: Do they have
their own dedicated browser?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
they have their own browser.
And they don't appear on those
stats as a separate browser.
In fact, meta has just created a name for
it, it's a Facebook mobile browser,
even on Instagram.
That's the name they have.
They're not registered to
the OS as a browser actually.
But they have their own inner browser.
And when you are browsing a website,
or web app,
on those social networks,
you are using a different engine that is
not the same engine as
the browser on that device.
So have you ever tried your website there?
The performance, the abilities,
is everything working properly?
So, today, around 7% of global
smartphone traffic come
from the Facebook or Instagram app.
This is coming from a mobile report,
there is an updated version
as well of that report.
They create a report every three months,
I think.
It's mobile report from ScientiaMobile.
So it's a lot, okay?
That 7% is coming from social networks.
And it's in the other
stats that we saw before.
They are actually under Safari or Chrome
because those systems they don't recognize
or they don't separate the real
browser from inner browsers.
But the inner browser has
different capabilities.
And they can be slower on the same device.
Also, when we are browsing
the web with mobile devices,
we are using cellular networks.
And I know that some of you are thinking,
it depends on where you live,
we have 5G now, so we don't need to
worry about performance anymore.
Well, let's see.
First, let's talk about real data,
about real users.
Today, so here we have in black,
this is coming from the GSM Association.
This is where all the carriers on
the world are actually grouped.
We have in black, the actual
data from December last year and
in red, the idea for the future, okay?
But we're not there yet, so
we will focus on the black part.
In terms of 4G,
60% of connections worldwide are 4G.
Only 12% are currently 5G, okay?
So we still have 30,
around 30 on other networks.
And this refers per region, we are not
going to see all the regions here.
I don't wanna bore you with this,
but let's focus here on 2022.
You will see that, for example,
Asia Pacific, we still have 15% on 2G.
I'm not sure if you have ever
browsed the web with 2G, have you?
No, lucky you.
But it's not just 2G, we have 3G,
but this is real users today,
not 15 years ago, okay?
Today, that they might be customers
of your web app or website.
I don't know,
it depends on what are you doing.
But if it's a global app, a global
website, you might have customers there.
So CIS, that is kind of the Soviet Union,
okay, in terms of the region.
It doesn't matter, but
that's the region, okay?
So it's a lot of ex-Soviet countries.
So you also have a problem there, because
you can see that almost 5G doesn't exist.
So we don't have 5G, it's 4G and
3G mainly and also 2G.
Latin America, I'm from Argentina.
So this is Latin America,
we have a lot of 4G, we don't have yet 5G.
Yeah, we still have some users on 2G.
Of course, that depends on the country.
Yeah, North America without Mexico.
They didn't include Mexico here because,
yeah, it's Canada and US basically,
almost you don't have 2G.
In fact in some areas,
it's completely disabled at this point.
And yeah, you have a lot of 5G, okay, 40%.
But it's just here,
it is not the rest of the world.
But even with that in mind,
because maybe you're saying,
well, you know what,
my solution is for US customers,
so I'm focusing on that,
maybe that's a possibility.
But when we are talking about 2G,
3G, 4G, 5G, within the generations
of network connections,
most of the time we think of bandwidth.
Yeah, that the bandwidth is better,
but it's true.
But when we are browsing the web,
is the bandwidth really important?
So forget about the mobile world,
think about your home connection.
Let's say you have 200 megabits per
second, you have a connection, 200.
And then you go to 400, you pay more to
your Verizon or wherever plan you have,
you double the speed,
are you going to browse the web faster?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I don't think so.
Maybe you will see Netflix better,
you will have more connections of
Netflix in 4G, Netflix at home,
but browsing the web is not going
to be really, really faster.
Because the problem is not the bandwidth,
the problem is the latency.
And that's the time delay between
when a data packet is sent and
when it's received,
expressed in milliseconds.
In short words,
it's the time that it takes for
the data to get off your device and
get back to your device.
So from, in this case your,
let's say your phone.to the web server and
back, that's the latency, okay?
If you're working with gaming,
you probably know that better because
latency on gaming is really important.
But you will see on browsing
the web latency is also important,
because latency is actually something
that will be there on every packet.
So every packet that you send, well, I'm
browsing the web, I'm not sending data.
Well, actually,
when you're browsing the web,
it's the browser making HTTP requests,
and that's sending data.
So every HTTP request to get
the response will have a latency.
And that's currently the latencies,
in average, on 2G to 5G.
You have in there at the green area.
It's a range, so min and max.
On 2G, it's pretty bad.
So that's why I said lucky you if you
didn't have experience browsing the web
with 2G.
So in this case,
when you are connected in 2G,
the latency can be between roughly
a quarter of a second and
a second and a half.
So that means you request, one image and
the first byte comes after one second for
every HTTP request that you have, okay?
3G is better, you can see it's better.
And of course, 4G and 5G are increasing or
decreasing the latency,
increasing the experience.
So yeah, it's better to have 4G and 5G.
So you can see that, yeah, we saw that
there are still some users on 2G.
But even if we forget about those, and
even if we are lucky enough to say,
you know what, my users are not
even on 3G, for whatever reason.
When we get deeper in just 4G and
5G that we know is
not all the users,
this is how it looks like.
And the last one, it's a DSL home
connection that you might have.
You can see that even 5G is
worse than a connection that
has to do with the medium, okay?
It's not the same to be wireless.
Also on 5G, yesterday,
I've got some information from
a friend that is working
at a Canadian company and
he's working on that part,
on connections, on 5G.
So I asked him the real latency of 5G,
because when you search for
the latency of 5G,
you typically get theoretical information.
Yeah, it can be one second,
one millisecond, sorry, not second,
one millisecond.
Yeah, but
that's if the antenna is there, okay?
It's not the real world.
Well, in the real world,
he said that today in North America, so
not in every country, in North America,
today is around 50, so
the average is 50 milliseconds.
So compared with DSL that you can get 10,
12, 15, it's still high.
Yeah, much better than 3G,
I agree, but it's still a problem.
And remember, this latency goes on every
request that your website is doing
to the server because it's an upload,
okay, and then you get the response.
So Verizon on their website,
they say the latency hardly impacts
smartphone user experience in
advanced 5G and 4G networks.
That's a statement from their website.
The problem is that, first,
that's not completely true.
But anyway,
not every country has advanced 4G and 5G.
They might have 4G and
5G, but not advanced.
And we still have 30% of users on 3G or
worse.
So it's not like we shouldn't care
about performance on mobile devices,
it's still a problem today.
So we still have a performance
issue with the mobile web.
And that's why we care about this, okay?
But networks is not the only thing.
We also have CPU and GPU problems.
I mean, not a problem, situations
that That happens in the real world.
Maybe you're thinking but
my iPhone is actually pretty fast.
So I have a Samsung Galaxy S20 that has
a very good GPU from Qualcomm, blah,
blah, blah, blah,
it compares with my laptop.
But that's not the real world.
We are not the real world.
That's again, that's from yesterday
as well, with real users,
and it's the median on
JavaScript boot up time, so
how much time it takes to
actually run JavaScript briefly.
But the important part here is
the comparison between desktop and
mobile, okay?
And you can see that mobile is much worse.
Again, probably not for
the phone that you have in your pocket,
but that's not our user.
We are not our users, okay?
So on mobile we have,
first that we are typically
underestimating how it looks like.
We don't try and
test on every browser out there.
Then we have a latency on cellular
networks that sometimes
we forget about that.
And then we just test our mobile website,
and even we test the performance
of our mobile website in desktop
Chrome with just a narrow window.
And yeah, that's not the case because
we are probably on Wi-Fi, but
that has a DSL or another connection
that has a different latency.
And then we have CPU and
GPU difference on real devices out there.
So that's why we get into this
12.5 seconds that we've failed.
It's painful, okay, and
we need to solve that.
That's why we're still talking
about web performance.
It's been a while since, I mean,
the community started talking
about web performance, and
we still need to push it further.
Because when you compare that on desktop,
the same metric, you will see it's half.
So on desktop, I mean,
the problem is still there.
We will see if six seconds is okay or not.
But on desktop, without changing
the websites, it's better, why?
Because network is different, the latency
of the network is different, and
also CPU and
GPU is different or is better.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So, other places
where you can see that difference.
There is another metric that
we will cover in a minute.
It's called first contentful paint.
And you can see that the median is
different on desktop and mobile.
So mobile is slower by default, so
all the metrics by default
are worse on mobile devices.
And by the way,
mobile users are typically more than 50%
of the use of browsing the web today.
It depends on the website,
but it's typically over 50%.
So we should care more about that
because it's more than 50% and
also are the ones that need more help
from us to make a better experience.
Speed index is also better on desktop, and
probably you know what a speed index is,
so we will get into that later.
And we have a question.
>> Speaker 3: Based on HTTP/2 and
having the possibility to have multiple
requests without blocking each other,
is it still important to think about
limiting these due to latency problems?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
the latency on HTTP/2 or 3, or
even if there is a 4 tomorrow,
is it still there?
So the latency is not changing that.
We will see that with HTTP/2, and that
ability that maybe not everyone knows at
this point what that means, will change
how we think about some tips and tricks,
but it's not changing the latency.
So over HTTP/2, even if we are sharing the
same TCP connection, every time we send
a packet, a TCP packet, from the browser
to the server, we have the latency.
So HTTP/2 is not improving or
changing the latency issue.
The latency is still there.
It's going to improve other
situations such as how many requests
you can start at the same time and
releasing some client and
server resources, but it's not
actually affecting the latency issue.